Abstract
Machine learning techniques are quickly becoming some of the most popular methods for automated classification tasks. Medical diagnosis is something that stands to benefit greatly from the insight machine learning can offer. However, there seems more of an interest for researchers to analyze the efficacy of new algorithms at predicting more so than optimizing overall prediction accuracy for the diagnosis itself. SoftWare Assisted diaGnosis (SWAG) attempts to do the latter, and combines many modern and powerful algorithms to maximize prediction accuracy for medical diagnosis tasks. SWAG aims to be lightweight, easy to use, portable, and heavily customizable if needed. With the advent of ultra-low-cost computing solutions such as the Raspberry Pi, it makes sense to make available the medical diagnostic capabilities of machine learning to underprivileged areas that do not have proper access to medical doctors. SWAG attempts to do this, and while it would be substitute for the final diagnostic provided by a medical doctor, it could at least alert users of an otherwise hidden disease. Benchmarking was done using three publicly available datasets from the University of California, Irvine’s Machine Learning department. These datasets were regarding breast cancer, heart disease, and Parkinson’s disease, and the average test accuracy for each was 100%, 99.6%, and 100% respectively. All code is available to the public on github at https://github.com/akallu/SWAG.
Introduction
The problem with machine learning tasks is often choosing what algorithm is best for the task. Those who are well versed in machine algorithms are usually able to determine the appropriate algorithm to use, however the users of SWAG are not assumed to be experts in machine learning. This is why SWAG comes stock with a few of the most robust and powerful algorithms such as; Naïve Bayes, k Means, k Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machines, Hidden Markov Models, and AdaBoost. The user can simply pass SWAG their training data and begin accurate classification. There is absolutely no need for one to even choose which algorithms to use, much less waste their time trying to optimize algorithm specific parameters. However, for more advanced machine learners, there exists the ability to heavily customize the diagnostic functions SWAG provides—this includes algorithm selection, parameter selection, and more. The other important goal of SWAG is to be portable and lightweight so that it can be used on low-cost computers like the Raspberry Pi.  SWAG attempts to do this in several ways, such as allowing the serialization of classifiers to avoid re-computing classifiers (which can be very computationally expensive to do), and making sure that the codebase is optimized.
